Add the application (#1)
zarhus/ram-dump-efi: README.md

distribution) or your application, which RAM data should be dumped. When
you think it is time to dump RAM - reboot to the EFI application either via
warm or cold boot and choose option `3`. The application will dump RAM into
files on the partition where the application is being stored. It **is
important** then to make the partition with the appropriate size to store dumped
RAM.

The files will be named in the following way:

```bash
ls /mnt
2025_04_29_14_27_0x0000000000001000.csv  2025_04_29_14_27_0x000000003F5EE000.csv
2025_04_29_14_27_0x0000000000100000.csv  2025_04_29_14_27_0x000000003FC00000.csv
2025_04_29_14_27_0x0000000001600000.csv  2025_04_29_14_27_0x000000003FD20000.csv
2025_04_29_14_27_0x000000003BD48000.csv  EFI
```

That is `YEAR_MONTH_DAY_HOUR_MINUTE_START-ADDRESS.csv`, where the
`START-ADDRESS` is the address from where the dumping began, and the size of a
file is the amount of dumped memory starting from the address. Some start
addresses and sizes may correspond to the numbers on the image above, and some
may not. This is because some addresses were modified by firmware and were
excluded or shrunk from the dump.

## Limitations and issues

> There are two magor limitation of the application:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two major limitations of the application:
```

Author: 6e7f309a345a8b18c7eada772890507cfb610e5a

Reviewer: ```diff
-limitation
+limitations
```

Author: fc01dc43d0f41a5c47b2b5df779abce40baae567

1. Sometimes firmware may pollute RAM with a lot of data with leng about one

>   page that are separated by not modified by firmware addresses, e.g.:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Sometimes firmware may pollute RAM with a lot of data with a length of about one
  page that is separated by unmodified firmware addresses, e.g.:
```

Author: 6e7f309a345a8b18c7eada772890507cfb610e5a

Reviewer: ```diff
-by unmodified by firmware addresses
+by unmodified firmware addresses
```

Author: :man_facepalming:

Author: fc01dc43d0f41a5c47b2b5df779abce40baae567

Author: ebb5b6cb8b84d550b3bee20a2dae6131f25e5c01

    *
    71c28180  00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00  00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00  |................|
    ```

    This will cause the application during step two (excluding RAM modified by
    firmware) to divide such RAM into many small sectors that require adding
    additional EFI memory descriptors per sector. Sometimes, the amount of
    needed descriptors exceed [statically defined
    amount](https://github.com/zarhus/ram-dump-efi/blob/cf5a22e46e6698e74112e5c5401209b6407e9941/app.c#L33)
    and cause the following error:

    ```bash
    Assertion failed: app.c:220: MmapEntries < MEMORY_DESC_MAX
    ```

    The error could be worked around by increasing allowed number of the
    descriptors via the definition. But the amount is limited by the [EFI
    variable](https://github.com/zarhus/ram-dump-efi/blob/9b0213337a2df2e0de970f9b935f6e2e483e7897/app.c#L344)
    as well and cannot be increased to infinity.

1. The second step (excluding RAM modified by firmware) assumes that firmware
  writes its data under the same addresses during every boot. This might not be
  true for some firmware. The application was tested on [Dasharo

>   firmware](https://docs.dasharo.com/) on several platforms, including Qemu, and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  firmware](https://docs.dasharo.com/) on several platforms, including QEMU, and
```

Author: 6e7f309a345a8b18c7eada772890507cfb610e5a

# RAM data remanence tester

> This UEFI application was made to help with testing RAM data remanence after

Reviewer: Maybe mention that it only supports x86

Author: 0305c265e5c375bc9dce1e4e06761b36a1e6d669

> powering off the platform.

Reviewer 2: IMHO it make sense to link blog posts about that:
https://blog.3mdeb.com/2024/2024-12-13-ram-data-decay-research/
https://blog.3mdeb.com/2025/2025-01-24-ram-data-decay-research-part2/
https://blog.3mdeb.com/2025/2025-02-20-conclusions-from-ram-data-remanence-tests/

Author: This description was a part of `ram-remanence-tester`, I forgot to change it. Fixed here 3c3a477db47c540adc1025eb293d5943fbadbb37.

Author: Addressed, resolving.

## Building

Prerequisites:

> - `gcc`, `make` & friends

Reviewer: friends? In Ubuntu container I didn't need any `friends`

Author: 0305c265e5c375bc9dce1e4e06761b36a1e6d669

- `gnu-efi`
- `gnu-efi-devel`

It is known to work with GCC 14.2.1 and both `gnu-efi` packages in version
3.0.18, as found in Fedora 40. Older versions of `gnu-efi` may require different
build options than those defined in Makefile.

To build, simply run:

```shell
make
```

This will produce `BOOTx64.EFI` file that should be copied to USB drive

> formatted as FAT32 (not exFAT) to `/EFI/BOOT/` directory.

Reviewer: How does this app deal with FAT32 4 GB file limit?

Reviewer 3: In the main source code, note this macro:

```c
#define MAX_FILE_SIZE (UINT64)0xa0000000 /* 2684354560 bytes */
```

And this section of the file write code:

```c
			if (CurrentFileSize >= MAX_FILE_SIZE){
				FinalizeResults(File);
				GetFileName(FileName, (UINT64)Ptr);
				CreateResultFile(ImageHandle, &File, FileName);
				CurrentFileSize = 0;
			}
```

## Use

Plug in the drive and boot the tested platform from it. It will show available
RAM and EFI descriptors. Then, it will start dumping values of RAM addresses
from EFI descriptors into the drive from which it has been booted. The RAM will
be dumped into files with name prepended with the date and time and appended
with the dumping start address. The application will dump RAM only from
addresses specified on the descriptors printed.

## Credits

> This research has been supported by Power Up Privacy, a privacy advocacy group

Reviewer 2: Link to PUP: https://powerupprivacy.com/

Author: 3c3a477db47c540adc1025eb293d5943fbadbb37

Author: Addressed, resolving.

# RAM data dumper

This UEFI application minimalistic application to dump RAM. Based on
[Dasharo/ram-remanence-tester](https://github.com/Dasharo/ram-remanence-tester).

## Building

Supported architectures:
- `x86_64`

Prerequisites:

- `gcc`, `make`
- `gnu-efi`
- `gnu-efi-devel`

It is known to work with GCC 14.2.1 and both `gnu-efi` packages in version
3.0.18, as found in Fedora 40. Older versions of `gnu-efi` may require different
build options than those defined in Makefile.

To build, simply run:

```shell
make
```

This will produce `BOOTx64.EFI` file that should be copied to USB drive
formatted as FAT32 (not exFAT) to `/EFI/BOOT/` directory.

## Use

Plug in the drive and boot the tested platform from it. It will show available
RAM and EFI descriptors. Then, it will start dumping values of RAM addresses
from EFI descriptors into the drive from which it has been booted. The RAM will
be dumped into files with name prepended with the date and time and appended
with the dumping start address. The application will dump RAM only from
addresses specified on the descriptors printed. Example output:

> ![example-output](./ram-dump-example-output.png)

Reviewer: Missing image

Author: 3c3a477db47c540adc1025eb293d5943fbadbb37
